In this tutorial, we will set up inverse kinematics for the character's arm bone that is at the barrel.
First, let's see what our problem is. Go to the character's blueprint.
For testing, let's turn the camera to the face of the character. To do this, change the socket offset of
the spring arm component. Let's put 600 in x, 0 in y and also rotate the camera 180 degrees.
Compile. We start the game. We look at the hand, which is at the barrel, its position is not fixed, it walks with us
depending on the animation. We can fix this by fixing the position of the hand.
Moving on to the animated blueprint. The node that is used in such cases is called FABRIK.
We take it out to the blueprint graph. For convenience, we will test its work on the basis of just one animation.
We pull out the death animation from the browser asset, turn off our main logic, connect the animation to the FABRIK node.
Nodes for transforming coordinate systems are automatically created, called LocalToComponent.
We will not focus on them now. So, select the FABRIK node. Let's remove the effector transform from the pin by
clicking the details panel and unchecking the corresponding property.
Compiled blueprint. We haven't set up anything yet and just the death animation is playing.
Let's see what properties the FABRIK node has. The first effector target is the bone relative to
which we want to fix the position of the other bone. Click on the combobox - the skeleton
tree of our character opens . For the test, select the head bone - head. We will fix the other bone relative to it
. Also in the description for the property it is said that you need to change the transform space to bone space.
We do this. Let's go to the solver category. The first property is of type bone - this is the bone that we want to
fix relative to the effector target. Let's select, for example, some finger on the left hand - [thumb]
Next property - root bone. This is a different bone. In fact, this is the end of the chain in which our node will
calculate all the transformations of the bones that are between the root bone and tip bone.
Blueprint compiled. We can also slow down the animation speed in the viewport. Let's choose 0.25.
Or even 0.1 and now the transformation of the toe bone matches the transformation of the head.
We can also change the relative transformation, and the transformations of all bones in the chain between the finger
and the left arm are calculated automatically. Let's also see these bones in the skeleton. If we open skeleton.
In the tree, the left arm bone is next to the shoulder. We fixed the thumb bone on the head,
and the transformations of the bones that are between them are calculated automatically by our node.
Also note that the skeleton has a virtual bone called LeftWeapon.
It is her that we will attach to the muzzle of our weapon. Let's go back to the blueprint
and substitute the other bones to secure the material. Let the tip bone be the toe.
Select the toe on the left leg. The root bone will be left up leg. Compiling the blueprint.
And now we have fixed the sole of our foot to the character's head.
We are ready to capture the transformation of the left hand at the muzzle of our rifle.
We need to do this before the slot node, otherwise, when the death animation is played, the
hand will also be fixed. We reconnect all the nodes.
Let's reset the transformation, click on the yellow arrow.
There are no weapons in the character's skeleton. What we see is just a preview of our rifle.
Therefore, we will calculate the transformation of the left hand relative to the transformation of the right hand.
Select tip bone - left weapon - our virtual bone, which we looked at in the skeleton.
And the root of the chain will also be the left arm. Compile. So, the left weapon bone has shifted to the
position of the right hand bone, as we intended, and it remains to change the relative transformation.
I picked it up in advance: -50, -11 and 4. And now the hand is at gunpoint,
but in fact its transformation is calculated relative to the transformation of the right hand.
Compile blueprint. Let's test it. We launch. We look at the hand, now the palm does not walk - it is fixed relative to the
right hand and is located approximately under the barrel of the weapon. That's all in this lesson.